---
notes: true
pubDate: '2023-07-29'
draft: true
title: Weaknote 2023-07-29
published: true
---

/me scratches head.

I feel like I haven't much to say this week. Maybe I can think of something. Let's see...

### Life

Bought the kids three different kinds of new footwear for various reasons. Trainers (a.k.a. sneakers), wellies (a.k.a. rain boots) and sandals (rubber/plastic ones, also for use by pools/swimming). I also bought them swimming goggles recently. They're about to have a half-birthday\* party next month, so they're having a period of gifts coming up - let's hope they don't get too used to new stuff all the time!

We're taking our annual holiday in September (because they're not school age yet so it's cheaper), but I'm starting to feel some mental tiredness, and I think they're pretty tired of Kindergarten too. We might try and take some random days soon just as a rest for all of us (not that having kids at home is much of a rest, but eh!).

\*They both have winter birthdays, as do lots of the family - we get a bit present-fatigued and out of ideas, and it's just blah having a party for their friends around then too. So we have opted so far to run them a joint party in the summer, when we've had time to think of things they might actually need, and the kids can all run around outside if need be :)

I've treated myself to a few bits and pieces too lately, most notably a massage gun for my poor sore foot with the angry plantar fascia. It feels pretty good, hope it does me some good!

### Work

I invited [Florian Beijers](https://florianbeijers.xyz/) to speak to my colleagues about his experiences working as an accessibility manager, auditor, advocate and user. A person of many hats! He was very straight with them about how things are, and pulled no punches.

If your colleagues could do with the honest input of a real human being who requires and actively uses accessible tech, and who also speaks the language of developers - I recommend him wholeheartedly.

### Nerdry

- I added a barely styled sitemap to my site: https://sarajoy.dev/sitemap.xml
- I did a [PR for custom CSS](https://github.com/mirisuzanne/front-end-social/pull/10) on the [front-end.social](https://front-end.social) Mastodon instance - I'll be so happy if they take it (or a version of it after some refinement) on!

### New on the [CSS Joy Webring](https://cs.sjoy.lol)

- Reed Piernock: https://reedcodes.com